---
title: "Critiquing the collection: In the making."
kind: article
created_at: 2014-02-06 00:00:00 +0000
---
*[In the making](http://designmuseum.org/exhibitions/2014/in-the-making)* attempts to capture “the secret life” of “everyday objects”, to “[celebrate] the intriguing beauty of the production process.”
To do this, a small gallery has been set aside and darkened, and the individual objects are displayed individually in spotlights, in an “unfinished” state, or at least an unfinished-and-prepared-for-display-state. 
While the objects are all individually fascinating, there is a saddening lack of diversity in the origins and destinations of the objects- They are all designed for the western consumer, for the most part to the top 5% of this group. They are all produced on an industrial scale, usually in high end factories the west, occasionally in similar factories in southern asia. 
This monotony disguises the true diversity of production, indeed of making- probably the worlds true oldest and most widely practiced profession, considering that octopi have been documented contracting shelter. Things are produced all across the globe, every day, mostly by people who are not doing it professionally, and these items are not represented.
While the metadata on each item is scarce- barley a sentence of description, It consistently includes a second sentence describing how far production the product was, in the form of a percentage, always landing on a multiple of ten. The patent absurdity of the idea that all of these products were snatched a tenth of the way through production is a byproduct of the image of production that they are trying to create. Their production with a fixed beginning and end, through which a product travels in a linear fashion, monitored and guided by the blueprints of a Designer. It begins when a tool first makes contact with a material extracted from nature, and ends with a packged product in a truck, when it ceases to be the designers responsibility. This view of production does not consider post-purchase modification, re-imagination or re-purposing. It completely disregards all non-monetized production, along with all bespoke or amateur production. It is a production focused on their lived experience as professional institutional designers living within western capitalism.
The curators are only interested in telling a narrow history of design, the preferred history of western fordist and post-fordist capitalism, in which objects are designed by knowlege-workers, “completed” by invisible hands before being passed out to passive consumers who use them exactly as imagined. My personal history, shaped and shaping my own ideology is one of a much broader design, one that begins with cephalopods dragging shells into shelter, and lives throughout humanity when people re-imagine and re-create their surroundings constantly. My design history could not rationally conceive an exhibit such as *in the making*, for it does not see production as a singular event, but as a dispersed continuous process. 
